---
title: "[MS-FSSHTTP]: SchemaLockSubRequestDataType"
description: "
                      The SchemaLockSubRequestDataType complex type contains information about data or input parameters used in processing a"
---

# 2.3.1.13 SchemaLockSubRequestDataType

<p align="right"><a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/01ec6017-9744-4a59-8db0-6c2deb36995d">msdn link</a></p>
<p>The <b>SchemaLockSubRequestDataType</b> complex type
contains information about data or input parameters used in processing a schema
lock <a href="f293c591-a7b4-4964-b7fe-d77090b4cc3b.md#gt_29963f91-492c-4c33-ae33-c5185ac9315c">subrequest</a>. The <b>SchemaLockID</b>
attribute and the <b>SchemaLockRequestType</b> attribute specified in the <b>SchemaLockSubRequestDataOptionalAttributes</b>
attribute group MUST both be specified for a schema lock subrequest. The <b>SchemaLockID</b>
attribute and the <b>SchemaLockRequestType</b> attribute are specified as part
of the <b>SubRequestData</b> element associated with a schema lock <b>SubRequest</b>
element. <b>SchemaLockSubRequestDataOptionalAttributes</b> is defined in
section <a href="110e685c-3494-4c15-b54b-3ff55cefdee0.md">2.3.3.5</a>. If the
<b>SchemaLockRequestType</b> attribute is not provided, an error code SHOULD<a id="Appendix_A_Target_33"></a><a aria-label="Product behavior note 33" href="9ad3bd41-0f08-4f8b-ad2d-a894196a7e2e.md#Appendix_A_33">&lt;33&gt;</a> be returned. If other
attributes are not provided, an &quot;InvalidArgument&quot; error code MUST be
returned as part of the <b>SubResponseData</b> element associated with the
schema lock subresponse.</p>

<dl>
<dd>
<div><pre> &lt;xs:complexType name=&quot;SchemaLockSubRequestDataType&quot;&gt;
     &lt;xs:attributeGroup ref=&quot;tns:SchemaLockSubRequestDataOptionalAttributes&quot;/&gt;
     &lt;xs:attribute name=&quot;ClientID&quot; type=&quot;xs:string&quot; use=&quot;optional&quot;/&gt;
     &lt;xs:attribute name=&quot;AllowFallbackToExclusive&quot; type=&quot;xs:boolean&quot; use=&quot;optional&quot; /&gt;
     &lt;xs:attribute name=&quot;ReleaseLockOnConversionToExclusiveFailure&quot; type=&quot;xs:boolean&quot; use=&quot;optional&quot;/&gt;
     &lt;xs:attribute name=&quot;SchemaLockID&quot; type=&quot;xs:string&quot; use=&quot;required&quot; /&gt;
     &lt;xs:attribute name=&quot;Timeout&quot; type=&quot;xs:integer&quot; use=&quot;optional&quot; /&gt;
     &lt;xs:attribute name=&quot;ExclusiveLockID&quot; type=&quot;xs:string&quot; use=&quot;optional&quot;/&gt;
 &lt;/xs:complexType&gt;
</pre></div>
</dd></dl>

<p><b>SchemaLockSubRequestDataOptionalAttributes:</b> An
attribute group that specifies the set of attributes that are provided only for
a <b>SubRequestData</b> element whose parent <b>SubRequest</b> element’s <b>Type</b>
attribute is set to &quot;SchemaLock&quot;. <b>SchemaLockSubRequestDataOptionalAttributes</b>
is defined in section 2.3.3.5.</p>

<p><b>ClientID:</b> A string that serves to uniquely identify
each client that has access to a shared lock on a coauthorable file. <b>ClientID</b>
MUST be specified on all types of schema lock subrequests. The different types
of schema lock subrequest are defined in section 2.3.3.5.</p>

<p><b>AllowFallbackToExclusive:</b> A Boolean value that
specifies to a protocol server whether a schema lock subrequest is allowed to
fall back to an exclusive lock subrequest provided that shared locking on the
file is not supported. When shared locking on the file is not supported:</p>

<ul><li><p><span><span>  
</span></span>An <b>AllowFallbackToExclusive</b> attribute value set to <b>true</b>
indicates that a schema lock subrequest is allowed to fall back to an exclusive
lock subrequest.</p>

</li><li><p><span><span>  
</span></span>An <b>AllowFallbackToExclusive</b> attribute value set to <b>false</b>
indicates that a<b> </b>schema lock subrequest is not allowed to fall back to
an exclusive lock subrequest.</p>

</li></ul><p><b>The AllowFallbackToExclusive</b> attribute is specified
as part of a schema lock subrequest of type &quot;Get Lock&quot;. The types of
schema lock subrequest are defined in section 2.3.3.5. </p>

<p><b>ReleaseLockOnConversionToExclusiveFailure:</b> A Boolean
value that specifies to the protocol server whether the server is allowed to
remove the <b>ClientID</b> entry associated with the current client in the <b>File
coauthoring tracker</b>, provided that all of the following conditions are
true:</p>

<ul><li><p><span><span>  
</span></span>The type of the schema lock subrequest is &quot;Convert to an
Exclusive Lock&quot;.</p>

</li><li><p><span><span>  
</span></span>The conversion to an exclusive lock failed.</p>

</li></ul><p>When all the preceding conditions are true, the following
apply:</p>

<ul><li><p><span><span>  
</span></span>A <b>ReleaseLockOnConversionToExclusiveFailure</b> attribute set
to a value of <b>true</b> indicates that the protocol server is allowed to
remove the <b>ClientID</b> entry associated with the current client in the <b>File
coauthoring tracker</b>.</p>

</li><li><p><span><span>  
</span></span>A <b>ReleaseLockOnConversionToExclusiveFailure</b> attribute set
to a value of <b>false</b> indicates that the protocol server is not allowed to
remove the <b>ClientID</b> entry associated with the current client in the <b>File
coauthoring tracker</b>.</p>

</li></ul><p>The<b> ReleaseLockOnConversionToExclusiveFailure</b>
attribute MUST be sent only when the schema lock subrequest type is set to
&quot;Convert to exclusive lock&quot;. The types of schema lock subrequests are
defined in section 2.3.3.5. The <b>File coauthoring tracker</b> is defined in
section <a href="13eaddf0-1bd9-4351-aa13-1f06eba1f82d.md">3.1.1</a>.</p>

<p><b>SchemaLockID:</b> A string that is globally unique and
known among all protocol clients that share the same protocol version. The
schema lock identifier is used by the protocol server to block other clients
that have different schema identifiers. After a protocol client is able to get
a shared lock for a file with a specific schema lock identifier, the server
MUST allow only other protocol clients that specify the same schema lock
identifier to share the file lock. The protocol server ensures that at any
instant in time, only clients having the same schema lock identifier can lock
the file. After all the protocol clients have released their lock for that
file, the protocol server MUST allow a protocol client with a different schema
lock identifier to get a shared lock for that file. The <b>SchemaLockID</b>
attribute MUST be sent on all types of schema lock subrequests. The string
&quot;29358EC1-E813-4793-8E70-ED0344E7B73C&quot; has been reserved for use for
this attribute.<a id="Appendix_A_Target_34"></a><a aria-label="Product behavior note 34" href="9ad3bd41-0f08-4f8b-ad2d-a894196a7e2e.md#Appendix_A_34">&lt;34&gt;</a></p>

<p><b>Timeout:</b> An integer that specifies the time, in
seconds, after which the shared lock for that particular file will expire for
that specific protocol client. The <b>Timeout</b> attribute MUST be set to a
value ranging from 3,600 to 120,000. When the Timeout is set to a value ranging
from 60 to 3600, the server also returns success but sets the Timeout to an
implementation-specific default value. When more than one client is editing the
file, the protocol server MUST maintain a separate timeout value for each
client. The client’s timeout on a shared lock for a file is refreshed by
sending a schema lock subrequest of type &quot;Refresh lock&quot;. The <b>Timeout</b>
attribute MUST be specified in all of the following types of schema lock
subrequests:</p>

<ul><li><p><span><span>  
</span></span>Get lock</p>

</li><li><p><span><span>  
</span></span>Refresh lock</p>

</li><li><p><span><span>  
</span></span>Convert to exclusive lock</p>

</li></ul><p>The types of schema lock subrequests are defined in section
2.3.3.5.</p>

<p><b>ExclusiveLockID:</b>
A string that serves as a unique identifier for the exclusive lock on the file
when a schema lock subrequest of type &quot;Convert to exclusive lock&quot; is
requested. <b>ExclusiveLockID</b> MUST be specified when the type of the schema
lock subrequest is &quot;Convert to exclusive lock&quot; or &quot;Get
lock&quot; and the <b>AllowFallbackToExclusive</b> attribute is set to <b>true</b>.</p>


                